John Ballard

CH 1

2.) The Neolithic age is refered to as a revolution because many new technologies and cultural ideas came together to change how humans live as a society

4.) With the success of Sumer, other people were able to model their cities after Sumer and then continue on that model.

6.) The old Kingdom in egypt had many Gods and Goddesses, while in the middle and new kingdoms these were consolidated as a means of controlling people.

8.) The egyptians were a slow moving, respectful people. They looked before they leapted, and made sure to keep their gods happy.

10.) Egyptians had little need for progress. They had everything worked out well enough that leisure time was common for people and few went hungry.

12.) Under the persian empire the Near East was corralled into working together under the rule of it's emperors.

14.) Eastern mysticism and medicine had an affect on the west, along with traveling goods spiritual concepts also were traded.


CH 4?
2.) Pythagoras and friends developed methods of testing truths to develop the scientific method.

4.) Socrates always questioned everything to get to a deep misconception or idea taken as truth

6.) Plato described the "perfect world" that all math and physics attempts to describe.

8.) Plato's thoughts are still regularly used and debated today.

10.) I agree. Without a shared moral center only arguments and fighting will occur.


CH 5
2.) Alaxander created the hellenistic age by conqouring the entire known world

4.) NYC is closer to Alexandria than Athens due to the immense amount of mixed people and the large condensed amount of knowledge in it's library

6.) Hellenistic science helped to invent the modern Scientific Method through testing and re-evaluation of positions based on evidence

8.) They believed that happiness came from the inside in one form or another. Cynics had no use for happiness, and stoics did not show it anyways.

10.) Stoicism is the most pragmatic of Hellenistic Philosophy.

CH 6
2.) The roman constitutional system was built to hold up the growing weight of rome and rule effectivly.

4.) Rome had senators and emperors, citizens had rights, there was punishment for crime.

6.) Rome collapsed nder it's own weight as time wore on.

8.) Farmers were becoming more and more scare, replaced by regular soldiers. The farmers that remained were unable to hold onto their land or keep it functioning during wars.

12.) Rome was barely able to control its massive slave population and keep it's conquored territories under control. The lead water pipes that supplied most of the water the citizens drank didn't help either.

14.) The senators were more likely to bicker with eachother than attempt to get anything done, and that which was able to be accomplished could be overruled by a corrupt emperor.

CH 7
2.) Jesus taught to forget the old rules and love one another.

4.) Miracles showed that jesus was divine 

6.) Christianity used roman roads and roman coins to spread across a disillisioned empire

10.) Christians claim that Jesus is the messiah, and that you will go to hell if you don't worship him specifically


